DOCS-2722 Dashboards Widgets + Context Links Guide (#12486)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/dashboards/guide/context-links.md

---
title: Context Links
kind: guide
further_reading:
- link: '/dashboards/widgets'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'List of Dashboard Widgets'

---

## Overview

Your dashboards are fundamental in troubleshooting the root cause of an issue or determining an assertion to a critical question. 

> Dashboards can appear in your [notebooks][1], attached to a [monitor notification][2], or serve as a [screenboard][3]. You can start an investigation with a screenboard, document your insights in a notebook, and stay alerted by linking a monitor notification to your dashboard. 

Author: ```suggestion
You can start an investigation with a screenboard, document your insights in a notebook, and stay alerted by linking a monitor notification to your dashboard. 
```

Use Datadog dashboards to perform an initial assessment of your context-relevant data sources and explore insights in Datadog or in a third-party application.  

## Dashboard widgets

Dashboard widgets contain default links to relevant Datadog pages with information about the scope including the timerange, underlying queries, and the series on a graph. [Generic widgets][4] contain context links, allowing you to point to third-party applications and override the default links to customize your landing page. 

{{< img src="dashboards/guide/context_links/overview.mp4" alt="Context Link Demo" video="true" style="width:80%;">}}

This guide introduces context links and provides examples of how to create external links and override default links.

## Context links

> When investigating an issue, you may need to access external data or perform follow-up actions in a third-party application. Context links allow you to access and trigger third-party applications through webhooks in your dashboard widgets. 

Reviewer: This is Overview section material.

By the way, the guide is about the custom link feature as a whole. Customisation of custom links is one important aspect of it, but only one aspect.

Reviewer: Also, accessing / triggering third-part applications is one thing users might want to do, but likely not the only or most common one. Let's phrase accordingly, something like: 

After you've made an assessment in a Dashboard, your next step could be, for instance:
* dive deeper in the data, using specialised features in other Datadog pages (such as Explorers)
* broaden investigations, jumping to another Dashboard
* get insights or make actions from third-part applications

Out-of-the-box context links contain URLs to your underlying data and products in Datadog such as [Infrastructure][5], [APM][6], and [Logs][7]. Context links appear in the dropdown menu when you click on or in a widget in your dashboards. 

> If you have a generic widget with RUM data, the **View RUM events** link is present by default. The **View RUM events** link is hidden from your dashboard in summary and decoration widgets. 

Reviewer: Let's avoid mixing messages in the same paragraph.

Message 1: Custom Links include, by default, our 3 pillars (Infrastructure, APM, Logs) and the underlying data sources (RUM events in the context of a RUM query for instance)

Message2: Context Links are not customisable for summary or decoration widgets.

### Edit a context link

> Edit the list of context links on your dashboards to improve the navigation of your dashboards and investigation workflows. Click the **Edit** button on the right corner of the widget to access the list of context links under **Edit** > **Graph your data**.

Reviewer: I'd much prefer "tune" to "improve".

Author: ```suggestion
Edit the list of context links on your dashboards to fine tune the navigation of your dashboards and investigation workflows. Click the **Edit** button on the right corner of the widget to access the list of context links under **Edit** > **Graph your data**.
```

{{< img src="dashboards/guide/context_links/ec2_query.png" alt="AWS EC2 Query" style="width:90%;" >}}

* If the region is part of the query aggregation (for example, in the screenshot below), the templated link is `https://{{$region.value}}.console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region={{$region.value}}#InstanceDetails:instanceId={{host.value}}`, where `{{region.value}}` is a **template** variable. 

{{< img src="dashboards/guide/context_links/ec2_query2.png" alt="AWS EC2 Query" style="width:90%;" >}}

#### Result

Your dashboard widget contains a link that takes you to the appropriate host in the AWS Console.

{{< img src="dashboards/guide/context_links/ec2_interaction.png" alt="AWS EC2 Query Interaction" style="width:90%;" >}}

Clicking the **AWS EC2 Instance Summary** link directs you to the AWS EC2 instance page in the AWS Console.

{{< img src="dashboards/guide/context_links/ec2_result.png" alt="AWS EC2 Query Result" style="width:70%;" >}}

> ### Dashboard links to saved views and remapped attributes in Datadog

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Dashboard links to saved views and remapped attributes in Datadog

The following example explains how to create a link from a RUM event in a dashboard widget to its corresponding logs.
```

#### Context

You monitor your corporate website with Datadog. You may use [RUM][17] to understand your users and [Logs][21] to [overwatch your API Gateways][22] with a more technical perspective.

Your front-end engineers typically use dashboards with high-level RUM insights. The API Gateways team maintains a [Saved View][23] in the Log Explorer, which is a fine-tuned perspective that the front-end monitoring team relies on to monitor information that is relevant to them. 

{{< img src="dashboards/guide/context_links/logs-saved-view_result.jpg" alt="Logs Saved View result" style="width:90%;" >}}

To accelerate this troubleshooting workflow, the front-end monitoring teams would like to access the saved view with the current context of the dashboard.

#### Approach to Saved Views

> [Saved Views][23] define the default query, visualization, and configuration options in the Explorers. A typical saved view link is `https://app.datadoghq.com/logs?saved_view=305130`, which encodes the Log Explorer URL under-the-hood. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Saved Views][23] define the default query, visualization, and configuration options in the Log Explorer. A typical saved view link is `https://app.datadoghq.com/logs?saved_view=305130`, which encodes the Log Explorer URL under the hood. 
```

---
title: Context Links
kind: guide
further_reading:
   - link: '/dashboards/widgets'
     tag: 'Documentation'
     text: 'List of Dashboard Widgets'

---

## Overview

> Your dashboards are fundamental in troubleshooting the root cause of an issue or determining an assertion to a critical question. Dashboard widgets can appear in your [notebooks][1], attached to a [monitor notification][2], or serve as a [screenboard][3]. 

Author: ```suggestion
Your dashboards are fundamental in troubleshooting the root cause of an issue or determining an assertion to a critical question. Dashboards can appear in your [notebooks][1], attached to a [monitor notification][2], or serve as a [screenboard][3]. You can start an investigation with a screenboard, document your insights in a notebook, and follow up the investigation by linking a monitor notification to your dashboard. 
```

> Use Datadog dashboards to perform an initial assessment of your context-relevant data sources. In third-party applications, you may also need to access external data or perform follow-up actions. Context links also allow you to access and trigger third-party applications through webhooks as well as override default links. 

Author: ```suggestion
Use Datadog dashboards to perform an initial assessment of your context-relevant data sources and explore insights in Datadog or in a third-party application.  

You may need to access external data or perform follow-up actions in your third-party applications. Context links allow you to access and trigger third-party applications through webhooks. 
```

{{< img src="dashboards/guide/context_links/overview.mp4" alt="Context Link Demo" video="true" style="width:80%;">}}

> Dashboard widgets contain default links to relevant Datadog pages with information about the scope including the timerange, underlying queries, and the series on a graph. [Generic widgets][4] contain customizable links, allowing you to point to third-party applications and override the default links to customize your landing page. 

Author: Yes, we can add an H2 before this!

> Dashboard widgets contain default links to relevant Datadog pages with information about the scope including the timerange, underlying queries, and the series on a graph. [Generic widgets][4] contain customizable links, allowing you to point to third-party applications and override the default links to customize your landing page. 

Author: ```suggestion
Dashboard widgets contain default links to relevant Datadog pages with information about the scope including the timerange, underlying queries, and the series on a graph. [Generic widgets][4] contain context links, allowing you to point to third-party applications and override the default links to customize your landing page. 
```

This guide introduces context links and provides examples of how to create external links and override default links.

> ## Add a context link

Author: ```suggestion
## Context links
```

> By default, context links appear in the dropdown menu when you click on or in a widget in your dashboards and quick graphs. You can edit Out-of-the-box context links in the **Edit** tab under **Edit** > **Graph your data**. 

Author: ```suggestion
Context links appear in the dropdown menu when you click on or in a widget in your dashboards. You can edit Out-of-the-box context links in the **Edit** tab under **Edit** > **Graph your data**. 
```

> To create a context link, click **+ Add a Context Link**.

Author: ```suggestion
To create a context link, click **+ Add a Context Link**. Optionally, click the **Settings** button on the right corner of your dashboard widget and click **Create custom links**.
```

1. Add a description in the **Label** field. 
2. Enter the URL to your external application in the **URL** field.
3. Add key-value pairs by clicking **+ Add URL Parameter**.
4. Click **Save**.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

### Template variables

Template variables that are available for context links include a widget filter, widget time range, dashboard template variables (if any), and the specific series of user actions (if any). 

Optionally, you can write the URL with the double brackets `{{ }}` syntax to avoid URL encoding. For example, both `https://www.google.com/?q="hello world"` and `https://www.google.com%2F%3Fq%3D%22hello+world%22` are acceptable.

## Customize a context link

When the expected URL output contains a complex pattern that involves a domain name and deep URL parameters, use template variables as values in your context link URL. 

1. Add a link description in the **Label** field such as `See Hello World`.
2. Enter a valid destination link with an arbitrary value in the **URL** field such as `www.google.com/?q="hello world"`.
3. Replace the arbitrary value with a relevant template variable such as `www.google.com/?q="{{source.value}}"`.
4. Click **Save**.

When you click in your dashboard widget, the **See Hello World** link appears as a data action in the dropdown menu.

```

> You can hide context links by clicking the **Hide** button on the right corner. To show hidden context links, click the **Show** button on the right corner.

Author: ```suggestion
Out-of-the-box context links contain links related to your underlying data. For example, if you have a generic widget with RUM data, the **View RUM events** link is present by default. In summary and decoration widgets, the **View RUM events** link is hidden from your dashboard.

You can hide context links by selecting **Hide in context menu** before clicking **Save** or clicking the **Hide** button on the right corner. To show hidden context links, click the **Show** button on the right corner.
```

This example tracks the Metrics query for an AWS EC2 instance. 

{{< img src="dashboards/guide/context_links/ec2_query.png" alt="AWS EC2 Query" style="width:80%;">}}

For an AWS EC2 instance summary link like `https://eu-west-3.console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=eu-west-3#InstanceDetails:instanceId=i-04b737b9f8bf94a94`, format the link to `https://{{region.value}}.console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region={{region.value}}#InstanceDetails:instanceId={{host.value}}`.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

For example: 
```
